it is time the 21st of December has
arrived are the planets going to line up
is our solar system passing through the
Galactic plane is this our last sunset
you
I am the disbeliever and this session is
dedicated to the 21st of December 2012
planetary alignment and end of the world
we've been told that today all our
planets will align and this will cause
mayhem and destruction this is of course
false and you will all survive to
tonight when you can look into the sky
and you will notice our planets will
still be safely scattered here and there
others say no it's the Sun which will
physically pass through the Galactic
plane and this too is not true in fact
our solar system does bob up and down
the Galactic equator once every 35
million years roughly speaking and we
are now moving upwards we are about 20
to 40 light-years above the Galactic
equator and we will continue to move
upwards the next time we pass through
the Galactic playing will be in about 15
to 20 million years I expect all
doomsday experts to keep quiet until
then thank you very much
what is really happening is that our
solar system is lining up in a different
way our planets are lining up on the
same horizontal play let me show you
this by centering the view onto the Sun
and zooming backwards here's our son and
as we zoom backwards we will see what I
mean here's our son and the first orbits
we have mercury so here's the Sun and
here's nurturing okay and then we move
further backwards so that we can
focus our view on Venus here's Venus
ok
and here's earth earth is actually
behind the Sun they're on the same line
them Mars is right here so you see what
I'm speaking of is that all our planets
are actually resting more or less on the
same horizontal plane here's a full view
of our solar system and this particular
lineup will not be provoking any
disasters at all in fact if you look at
it from the top you can see our planets
are still pretty much in different
positions seen from the top okay so I
think you can rest assured and I can
pretty much safely wish you a Happy New
Year